planning a vacation but don't know where
to go yes
the Maldives Bali Thailand and other
warm countries seem very tempting but
what about an extreme trip let's say to
a beautiful place on earth where life
doesn't exist
ladies and gentlemen fasten your seat
belts we're going to the Danakil
depression take more water and light
clothing that will protect your body
from the Sun the Danakil depression is
the hottest place on earth where the
average temperature reaches 104 degrees
Fahrenheit even in winter and in summer
it is even hotter reaching 140 degrees
oh my so we arrive on the northern
border of Ethiopia in the city of mekele
this is the last chance to enjoy all the
benefits of modern civilisation because
we are going for lifeless deserts
mountain ranges and the afar triple
Junction one of the lowest places on
earth which is located at an altitude of
416 feet below sea level in the heart of
this pit
among the geysers seething with acid and
multi-coloured salt deposits there is
the ominous and at the same time
enchanting Danakil depression on the way
to the most lifeless place you can meet
a small village where the local tribe
lives afar this is one of the oldest
peoples in the world according to rumors
they are the ancestors of the Egyptians
but no one knows for sure
so this afar village is the last parking
lot in front of the entrance to the hot
foundation pit people here are cut off
from civilization by their own rules and
customs locals live in Danika that is in
a place that is practically nothing this
village is not supported by the state
but the village itself does not need
anything from it so the locals live here
as if in a different world
they feed on wheat cakes vegetables
raised goats live in huts and can sleep
in the open starry sky mmm so romantic
no toilets no running water no light
less romantic already the only thing
that connects them with civilization is
camel
Vans passing by locals are friendly
toward tourists but if you suddenly
decide to go there I would still advise
to hire a local guide and guards to
accompany yet well having had a good
snack with Ethiopian tortillas you can
go further to the center of the Danakil
depression and believe me here you'll
definitely feel like you're on another
planet on Mars to be precise the ground
you walk is basically made of the whole
periodic table of elements under the
soles of your shoes colorful salt
scrunch yellow sulfur red iron and black
manganese here literally everything is
poisoned the lakes are filled with red
yellow orange and brown acid water and
there is so much salt here that it forms
bizarre growths that stick out from the
ground and rocks from afar it all looks
like a frame from a sci-fi flick be
careful because geysers with sulfuric
acid are seething everywhere and this
substance to put it mildly is not very
favorable for the human body but now
let's find out the answer to the main
question is life possible in this place
a group of international scientists
discovered a new species of bacteria in
this valley high temperatures high salt
and heavy metals make the Danakil
depression the most unsuitable place to
live on earth however scientists
collected soil samples and in a special
laboratory we're able to detect a new
species of microorganisms these bacteria
are the size of a nanoparticle have the
shape of a sphere and live in mineral
salts the natural conditions in this
place are comparable to the conditions
on Mars so the discovery gives hope that
life can be discovered on the Red Planet
astrobiologists rejoiced because such a
discovery is very important for
understanding the origin of life and the
study of other planets but the happiness
didn't last long a group of French
scientists disputes this discovery using
the combined methods of molecular
microscopy they found out that the
bacteria they had discovered appeared as
result of laboratory pollution or could
be brought into the Danakil Valley by
tourists scientists conducted new
studies and didn't find active and
natural microbial life in Danica and
there are two reasons for this firstly
there is a lot of magnesium in the water
and it causes the cells to break down
secondly there is a low level of
phosphorus in a very high level of salt
yeah I won't bother you with the
chemical properties of these substances
I'll just say briefly such a ratio
doesn't allow molecules to adapt however
a lack of evidence is not proof of a
lack of life it's possible that a more
accurate molecular analysis can detect
new microorganisms but until that
happens the Danakil Valley is not
suitable for the existence of life well
unlike bacteria though humans have many
activities here here at the lowest point
of the Danakil Valley Ethiopians mined
salt and not with some modern machines
but with hard manual labor
salt is mined with sticks and hoes
stacked in blocks loaded onto camels and
transported through the mountains along
an ancient route to the city imagine
working all day under the scorching Sun
in the hottest place on earth salt used
to be more expensive than gold but now
it's worth a penny
by the way besides the Danakil
depression there are still places on
earth that are similar to other planets
or where practically no life exists not
counting tourists of course if you are
one of such fans of extreme landscapes
then look carefully it's not necessary
to go to Ethiopia because similar places
can be near you one ijen on the
Indonesian island of Java
there are several volcanoes with large
craters one of the craters is called
ijen inside it there's a beautiful
turquoise lake but don't be fascinated
by the beauty and especially don't try
to swim there instead of water there is
acid in the lake what about
microorganisms they simply cannot live
here because even a tin can
dissolves in this lake - Caribbean
islands
if you want to combine a comfortable
vacation with an extreme then go to the
Caribbean in this heavenly place you can
also find hell or at least it smells
like it a lake containing a huge amount
of sulfur steam always comes from it as
the water temperature reaches 195
degrees 3 Devon Island the Canadian
Devon island is one of the largest
uninhabited islands on earth no it
doesn't have bubbling lava rivers and
acid geysers but it's desert landscape
is considered as close to Martian as
possible it is here that the Houghton
Mars project is being conducted to study
people as if they were living on the Red
Planet long term for Lake east there is
a lake in Antarctica that is hidden
under two and a half miles of ice and
it's already been hiding there according
to scientists for 15 to 25 million years
in 2012 scientists drilled ice to get
water samples from the lake and
discovered a new kind of bacteria that
is not similar to any microorganisms on
earth researchers think that in this
lake under a thick layer of ice another
evolution of organisms could take place
five Mystery Spot you know I don't want
to end this journey with terrible and
lifeless deserts and lakes so now we
will go to one of the most unusual
places in which nothing threatens your
life
welcome to the gravitational anomaly in
California in the forests of Santa Cruz
is a very mysterious place it is called
Mystery Spot that figures on its
territory which is about 147 feet in
diameter laws of physics break and
scientists still can't give an
explanation to it hundreds of thousands
of tourists from all over the world come
to this place to feel the violation of
gravity and altitude you can let the
ball go at that place and it will roll
upwards or you can begin to fall back
but you won't actually fall broken
gravity will not keep you exactly
upright but you'll stay at
natural angle to the ground wild animals
and birds go around this place and
people often feel busy here
some believe that mystery spot is just a
natural anomaly while others think that
aliens are involved in any case you have
one more idea where you can go for the
weekend
[Music]